In this video, we're going to see how to interpret  row operations as matrix multiplication.
The first thing to remember is that matrix multiplication is composition of linear maps.
So we really want to think about this in terms of linear transformations. So let's look at this first question first.
Give a four by four matrix that can be used to perform the row operation. The third row goes to the third row plus four times the first row.
So want to think about the linear transformation that goes along with this matrix?
So we don't know what it looks like yet, but we're gonna take something that looks like the identity matrix and tweak it slightly to make it work.
So for the moment, let's just suppose we had the identity matrix and then we'll come back and change this.
Once we figure out how we need to change this to make it work.
So I'll write down the identity matrix here. All right.
So what does this do to a vector in R^4? Let me just write down kind of arbitrary vector and our four x one x two x three x four
All right, so we apply linear transformation to a vector. Remember, we're doing linear combinations of the columns here.
So this is X1 Times, the first column, which is one zero zero zero plus X, two times the second column.
Zero one zero zero. Well, it's X three times the third column.
And plus X four times. All right.
And if we just do this as it's written, then we end up with X one, x two, x three, x four.
It's not surprising the identity matrix left this thing alone.
OK. But that's not exactly what we're after, right? We want to send the third row to the third row.
Plus four times the first row. So it's kind of work a little bit backwards here.
Instead of this vector x1 x2 x3 x4 we really want to end up with X three plus four times X1.
So four times the first row added to third.
So if we want to get to x one in the third spot, the only way we're gonna get an X one is to change what's going on with our first vector.
Because that is the only place we see an X one, we want to see it. And the third row.
So we have to change the third row here from a zero solar arrays that zero.
And so instead of just getting X one times one zero zero zero, we will explain times one zero four there instead of zero.
So now we go back and change our standard matrix to reflect this, we left.
So now this matrix goes with our linear map here.
It took the vector x1 x2 x3 x4 and send it to x1 x2 x3+4x1 x4
All right. So this does the trick for the first one. Now let's think about what if we're going to swap a couple rows.
So let's let it go. How about. S going from R for an.
R for. The linear transformation.
With Standard Matrix Q We're gonna tackle this and kind of exactly the same way for the moment, we'll say.
Q Is the identity matrix? And then we will kind of work through to the end and then work backwards.
All right. So what should S of X one X two X three X form look like?
Just like before, because for the moment. Q is the identity matrix
Just have x1 times the first standard basis vector, x2 times the second standard basis vector and should be a one.
x three times the third one. Plus X, four times the last one.
And once again, if we leave Q as the identity matrix will get X one, x two, x three x four.
But that's not what we want again. We want to have the second and the fourth one swapped.
So X one, an X three should be the same. But instead of X two, we really want to X four and we really want the next two year.
So now we have to fix our part over here to make sure that we end up with X1 X for X three x two here and now,
the idea is we basically swap the roles of X two and X four.
Right. We really want to get X four multiplied by zero one zero zero and X two multiplied by
zero zero zero one because it would put X two in the bottom spot in X four in this one.
Maybe I'll just come here and cross that out and put an X four and cross that out.
Now, before we go back and fix Q I'm going to write this again, but put the variables in.
The correct order now, so X two is now multiplied by zero zero zero one.
And X three is still multiplied by zero zero one zero.
All right, so now we'll go back up to our Matrix Cube X,
what is still multiply by one zero zero zero, but our second column should now be that's not an A.
The second column should now be zero zero one zero.
Once again, erasing is not working -- there we go. You can erase this column.
And add in zero zero zero one third column, zero zero one zero.
That stayed the same. But our fourth column changed here. It's a race that.
It's. And now our fourth column should be zero one zero.
Zero. What's going on down here?
So now this matrix Q lines up with our linear transformation with the blue corrections that swaps the second and fourth rows.
All right. So that's two of our three row operations. We have one more kind row operation.
So let me clear as a little bit of space here.
All right, so now let's find linear transformation that goes with our standard matrix B,
which again, just for the moment I put in the identity matrix is a placeholder.
And we'll correct that in just a second. Want to see what happens to X1 X two, x three, x four.
So for the moment this is going to X one. That was the first database's vector, just like for.
All right, so if we compute, this will get X one, x two, x three,
x4 because that's what the identity matrix does for the identity linear transformation.
It leaves things alone. What we really want to get instead is we want our second row to be multiplied by negative five.
So instead of X two, we want a negative five x two.
And then X three and X four. All right.
So instead of next to here, we want a negative five x two.
So we're going to look over here where we produced an X to add.
Instead of getting X two times one, we want X two times negative five.
So instead of the one, we really want to have a negative five.
And now we do this, we'll get zero negative five x two zero zero added to the other things which remain the same.
So to fix this, we need to go back to our standard matrix and make the second column look like this column now.
We only changed one component there. Go ahead and race this.
So we'll go ahead and fix this second column. So we should have zero negative five zero zero.
And now this Matrix B will correspond to our linear transformation that sends Rotu to negative five to.